[MUSIC]
In this video,
we're going to look at performing
calculations with values in tables.
We're going to start in
the supply invoice statement.
And the first thing Zara would
like to do is find out the total
amount paid according to our supplier.
So we're going to click into W1 and
we're doing sum, so
"=sum", Tab to open our brackets,
and we didn't use Named Ranges in here.
So we're going to select our column.
Remember we can just come up to the top of
the column, not the worksheet column but
the table column and single click,
and it has selected the whole thing.
But what's happened over
here is quite unusual.
Instead of putting our
usual cell references,
Excel put what's called a structured
reference, and this is what you're
going to get when you perform
calculations with values in a table.
It's quite easy to understand.
It starts with the name of the table,
it then has the name of the column
enclosed in square brackets.
And this is saying add up
the values in the amount
column in the table, table supplier.
And when we press Enter,
we get the answer.
Now structured references are very robust.
If I change the name of the table,
the structured reference will update.
If I remove the table altogether,
the structured reference will
revert back to normal references.
So a little bit more
robust than named ranges.
Let's look at another example.
So I'd like to know how many payments were
made altogether according to the supplier.
And for this we're going to
use Excel's rows function.
So I'm going to type "=ROW", and
down to select rows plural.
And now it's asking for a column,
a row, or even a block of data.
I can use the entire table.
So if I just type "TB" and
select my table supplier,
it has selected the whole table.
I could have chosen a column as well,
but that will work fine.
And when I press Enter, 84 rows.
And let's look at something
quite interesting.
The next thing Zara wants to do is
find out for each invoice how many
days it was since the invoice being
issued and invoice being paid.
So we're going to take the paid date and
subtract the invoice date.
We're clicking into T2 and
typing "=", and
I'm going to click on Paid Date,
couple of differences.
First of all, you'll notice the table
name has not been included this time.
Well, I'll explain why in a moment, but
the other thing that's different
is its included this at symbol.
We didn't select the whole column.
We're not actually trying to work
with the whole column this time.
We're only trying to work
with the single cell.
And what that at means is get the value in
this row in the paid date column.
Let's do our minus now.
We're going to click on Invoice Date.
And you'll see they get the same thing.
Subtract the invoice
date value in this row.
Okay, we're now going to press Enter.
How amazing was that?
It has extended the table
one column to the right and
copy the formula down for us.
And now the only thing left for us to do
is to come in and give it a sensible name.
So we're going to call this "Days To Pay".
Just click on cell and type the name.
And now we see why we didn't include
the table name because Excel
realized that this was going
to be part of the table.
So we have a calculation in a table.
It doesn't put the table name, but
where the calculation is outside of
the table, it will put the table name,
because obviously we might
have more than one table.
So it needs to be clear about
which one we are using.
Let's have a look at
one more calculation so
we can understand how these structured
references work a little better.
We're going to do this in
the Recon Analysis, but
we're going to use the MC data.
So I'm going to click in here for
a moment.
Now the last thing that Zara wants
to do here is find out the total
overdue days and the total late charges
for each of our regions Sydney and
Melbourne, and we're going to
do this in our recon analysis.
What we would like to do though is to
create a calculation that can be dragged
down and across, because our late
charge column is actually next to our
days overdue column and we can do
this using structured references.
So going to start with our equals and
remember we're going to need a SUMIFS for
this calculation.
Now sum range is our days overdue.
But if I use the Named Range,
I wouldn't be able to
drive the formula across.
If I use the structured reference,
however, interestingly I can.
So we're going to choose our
table which is table MCI.
But now we need to specify a column.
And rather than typing,
if you just type your square bracket,
look at that,
all the column names actually come up.
And the one we want is Over Due By.
So I'm just going to
double click to select,
and we do need to close
our square bracket.
Now a structured reference is a bit like a
mixed cell reference, when we drag it down
it will still refer to the rows in
that column, so the rows are locked.
But when we drag it across,
it will actually move to
the next column on the right.
Okay, now type a comma.
The next thing we need is our
criteria range which is our location.
Now we do not want this to
change when we drag across,
we need this to remain absolute and
use our named range again,
and then a comma.
And then finally,
our actually criteria is Sydney.
So I'm going to click on a A8, but again,
we need a mixed reference this
time when we drag across.
We needed to stay locked, but
when dragged down, we needed to change.
So we're going to press F4 once,
twice, and three times.
We've got the dollar just
in front of the A, and
we can close our brackets and press Enter.
Let's start with dragging the formula
down, so I'm going to double-click.
Yep, it looks okay, and
then we're going to drag across.
A little tip if you come
to your fill options and
choose fill without formatting.
You can copy your formula down
without copying the formatting.
Well, that's looking good, but
let's just go and double check.
So now I'll double-check this one and
you will see that it has
moved to the next column in the table,
which is our late charge.
It has kept the location the same and
wanted this kept,
the A, the same, it has changed the row.
So three types of
references we've looked at.
There are structured references which
behave a bit like mixed cell references,
lock in the rows but not the columns.
Our Named Range which
are usually absolute, and
mix references using our dollars there.
There's no right or
wrong about which one to use.
It's helpful to know about all three and
to use the one that will
help you solve the problem that
you have most effectively.
So as well as structured referencing and
calculations,
we also had a brief look
at how tables auto extend.
This is our first hint of
the automation capabilities in tables,
we're going to explore this
even further in the next video.